Adds documentation about byField rerank processor (#8593)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/search-pipelines/rerank-processor.md

Introduced 2.12
{: .label .label-purple }

> The `rerank` search response processor can take different forms as specified by the [rerank type](#rerank-types). When used, it intercepts search results and reranks based on the rerank type. The processor orders documents in the search results based on their new scores. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rerank` search response processor can take different forms as specified by the [rerank type](#rerank-types). When used, it intercepts search results and reranks them based on the rerank type. The processor orders documents in the search results based on their new scores. 
```

## Request body fields

The following table lists all available request fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `<rerank_type>` | Object | Required | The rerank type provides the rerank processor with static information needed across all reranking calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<rerank_type>` | Object | Required | The rerank type provides the `rerank` processor with static information needed across all reranking calls.
```

> `context` | Object |  Required for the `ml_opensearch` rerank type | Provides the rerank processor with information necessary for generating reranking context at query time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`context` | Object |  Required for the `ml_opensearch` rerank type. | Provides the `rerank` processor with information necessary for generating reranking context at query time. 
```

`tag` | String | Optional | The processor's identifier.
`description` | String | Optional | A description of the processor.
`ignore_failure` | Boolean | Optional | If `true`, OpenSearch [ignores any failure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/creating-search-pipeline/#ignoring-processor-failures) of this processor and continues to run the remaining processors in the search pipeline. Default is `false`.

### Rerank types

Type | Description | Earliest available version
:--- | :--- | :---

> [`ml_opensearch`](#the-ml_opensearch-rerank-type) | Applies an OpenSearch provided cross encoder model. | 2.12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`ml_opensearch`](#the-ml_opensearch-rerank-type) | Applies an OpenSearch-provided cross-encoder model. | 2.12
```

> [`by_field`](#the-by_field-rerank-type) | Applies reranking based on a user provided field. | 2.18

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`by_field`](#the-by_field-rerank-type) | Applies reranking based on a user-provided field. | 2.18
```

### The `ml_opensearch` rerank type

The `ml_opensearch` rerank type is designed to work with the cross-encoder model provided by OpenSearch. For this rerank type, specify the following fields.

Field  | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :---  | :--- | :--- 

> `ml_opensearch` | Object | Required | Provides the rerank processor with model information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ml_opensearch` | Object | Required | Provides model information to the `rerank` processor.
```

Introduced 2.12
{: .label .label-purple }

The `rerank` search response processor intercepts and reranks search results. The processor orders documents in the search results based on their new scores. 

OpenSearch supports the following rerank types.

Type | Description | Earliest available version
:--- | :--- | :---
[`ml_opensearch`](#the-ml_opensearch-rerank-type) | Applies an OpenSearch-provided cross-encoder model. | 2.12
[`by_field`](#the-by_field-rerank-type) | Applies reranking based on a user-provided field. | 2.18

## Request body fields

The following table lists all available request fields.

Field | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`<rerank_type>` | Object | Required | The rerank type for document reranking. Valid values are `ml-opensearch` and `by_field`.

> `context` | Object |  Required for the `ml_opensearch` rerank type. Optional and does not affect the results for the `by_field` rerank type. | Provides the `rerank` processor with information necessary for reranking at query time. 

Reviewer: "results for" => "results of"?

`tag` | String | Optional | The processor's identifier.
`description` | String | Optional | A description of the processor.
`ignore_failure` | Boolean | Optional | If `true`, OpenSearch [ignores any failure]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/creating-search-pipeline/#ignoring-processor-failures) of this processor and continues to run the remaining processors in the search pipeline. Default is `false`.

<!-- vale off -->
## The ml_opensearch rerank type
<!-- vale on -->
Introduced 2.12
{: .label .label-purple }

To rerank results using a cross-encoder model, specify the `ml_opensearch` rerank type.

### Prerequisite

Before using the `ml_opensearch` rerank type, you must configure a cross-encoder model. For information about using an OpenSearch-provided model, see [Cross-encoder models]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/pretrained-models/#cross-encoder-models). For information about using a custom model, see [Custom local models]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/custom-local-models/).

The `ml_opensearch` rerank type supports the following fields. All fields are required.

Field  | Data type | Description
:--- | :---  | :--- 

> `ml_opensearch.model_id` | String | The model ID for the cross-encoder model to use for reranking. For more information, see [Using ML models]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/using-ml-models/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ml_opensearch.model_id` | String | The model ID used by the cross-encoder model for reranking. For more information, see [Using ML models]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/using-ml-models/).
```

Reviewer 2: Changed to "of". It's the model ID of the cross-encoder model.

## Example 

> The following example demonstrates using a search pipeline with a `rerank` processor implemented using the `ml_opensearch` rerank logic.

Author: I just realized the code base uses rerank type so in doing this aligns better [RerankType.java](https://github.com/brianf-aws/neural-search/blob/37ec0141ac07e81b86b7555215b5ebb65ea60217/src/main/java/org/opensearch/neuralsearch/processor/rerank/RerankType.java#L17)

The `query_context` object contains the following fields. 

Field name | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :---  
`query_text` | Required (see below)| The natural language text of the question that you want to use to rerank the search results. 

> `query_text_path` | Required (see below) | The full JSON path to the text of the question that you want to use to rerank the search results. The maximum number of characters in the path is `1000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`query_text_path` | Required (see below) | The full JSON path to the text of the question that you want to use to rerank the search results. The maximum number of characters allowed in the path is `1000`.
```

> You are required to select either `query_text` or `query_text_path`, but not both simultaneously. Please ensure that only one option is chosen to avoid conflicts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are required to select either `query_text` or `query_text_path` but cannot select both simultaneously. Please ensure that only one option is chosen in order to avoid conflicts.
```

### The `by_field` rerank type

> The `by_field` rerank type is designed to operate using a specified field within your document. This is useful if a model has already ran and produced a numerical score in your document(s), or if a previous search response processor was applied and you want to rerank documents differently based on an aggregated field. For this rerank type, specify the following fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `by_field` rerank type is designed to operate using a specified field in your document. This can be useful if a model has already run and produced a numerical score in your document(s) or if a previous search response processor was applied and you want to rerank documents differently based on an aggregated field. For this rerank type, specify the following fields.
```

Field  | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :---  | :--- | :--- 

> `by_field` | Object | Required | Provides the rerank processor with reranking information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`by_field` | Object | Required | Provides reranking information to the `rerank` processor.
```

> `by_field.target_field` | String | Required |  This can be a path to your field that has a numerical score, in the form of `key[.key]`. 

Reviewer: It's not clear if "that has" refers to "a path" or "your field". Please rephrase. No comma if "in the form of `key[.key]`" is essential information connected to "a numerical score". With the comma, the phrase can be applied to "a path".

> `by_field.remove_target_field` | Boolean | Optional | if `true` it will delete the `target_field` used to perform reranking. Otherwise, the field is kept in the search result. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`by_field.remove_target_field` | Boolean | Optional | If `true`, deletes the `target_field` used to perform reranking. Otherwise, the field is not deleted. Default is `false`.
```

> `by_field.keep_previous_score` | Boolean | Optional | if `true` it will append a `previous_score`, this was the score calculated before reranking, its useful when debugging. When `false`, there wont be an additional field in your search result. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`by_field.keep_previous_score` | Boolean | Optional | If `true`, appends a `previous_score`, which is the score calculated before reranking and can be useful when debugging. When `false`, no additional field is added. Default is `false`.
```

> 

Reviewer: Above: Confirm that my changes retain technical accuracy.

## Example 

The following example demonstrates using a search pipeline with a `rerank` processor implemented using the `by_field` rerank type.

> ### Create an index with data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an index and ingest data
```

> Create an index and ingest data that has a numerical score you wish to rerank by. In this example we will ingest the following data for a index named `book-index`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an index and ingest data with the numerical score that you want to use to rerank search results. The following example request ingests data for an index named `book-index`:
```

> 

Reviewer: Above: Confirm that my changes retain technical accuracy.

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "book-index", "_id": "1" } }
{ "title": "The Lost City", "author": "Jane Doe", "genre": "Adventure Fiction", "reviews": { "stars": 4.2 }, "description": "An exhilarating journey through a hidden civilization in the Amazon rainforest." }
{ "index": { "_index": "book-index", "_id": "2" } }
{ "title": "Whispers of the Past", "author": "John Smith", "genre": "Historical Mystery", "reviews": { "stars": 4.7 }, "description": "A gripping tale set in Victorian England, unraveling a century-old mystery." }
{ "index": { "_index": "book-index", "_id": "3" } }
{ "title": "Starlit Dreams", "author": "Emily Clark", "genre": "Science Fiction", "reviews": { "stars": 4.5 }, "description": "In a future where dreams can be shared, one girl discovers her imagination's power." }
{ "index": { "_index": "book-index", "_id": "4" } }
{ "title": "The Enchanted Garden", "author": "Alice Green", "genre": "Fantasy", "reviews": { "stars": 4.8 }, "description": "A magical garden holds the key to a young girl's destiny and friendship." }

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Creating a search pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a search pipeline
```

> The following request creates a search pipeline with a `by_field` rerank type response processor. We want to rerank `by_field` using a nsted `target_field` "reviews.stars", we are also interested in understanding how our documents ranked before applying this rerank type so we will enable `keep_previous_score`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following request creates a `rerank` processor implemented using the `by_field` rerank type. The processor reranks search results by field using the nested `target_field` "reviews.stars". Enabling `keep_previous_score` shows you how the documents ranked before applying the `by_field` rerank type.
```

> 

Reviewer: @kolchfa-aws I had to make a couple of assumptions in my rewrites here. Please ensure that they retain technical accuracy.

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/rerank_byfield_pipeline
{
  "response_processors": [
    {
      "rerank": {
        "by_field": {
          "target_field": "reviews.stars",
          "keep_previous_score" : true
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> ### Using a search pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the search pipeline
```

> Combine an OpenSearch query with this new pipeline and see your results reranked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can combine an OpenSearch query with the pipeline you created in order to see the reranking of your search results:
```

> 

Reviewer: @kolchfa-aws I had to make a couple of assumptions in my rewrites here. Please ensure that they retain technical accuracy.

```json
POST /_search?search_pipeline=rerank_byfield_pipeline
{
  "query": {
     "match_all": {}
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Which now yields the following. Observe that our documents are now sorted in a descending order based on the rating of each book, we kept the `previous_score` to help keep track of how we originally scored before reranking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response will appear similar to the following. The documents are now sorted in descending order based on the rating of each book, and the `previous_score` field provides the original document scores:
```

> 

Reviewer: @kolchfa-aws I had to make a couple of assumptions in my rewrites here. Please ensure that they retain technical accuracy.

`query_text` | The natural language text of the question that you want to use to rerank the search results. Either `query_text` or `query_text_path` (not both) is required.
`query_text_path` | The full JSON path to the text of the question that you want to use to rerank the search results. Either `query_text` or `query_text_path` (not both) is required. The maximum number of characters in the path is `1000`.

### The `by_field` reranker type

> The `by_field` reranker type is designed to work with a provided field that is in your document. This can be helpful if you have ran a model previously and a nuermical score is in your document, or if you applied a previous search response processor and want to rerank your documents differently based on a field that was aggregated. For this reranker type, specify the following fields.

Reviewer 3: nuermical -> numeric

Field  | Data type | Description
:--- | :---  | :--- 
`by_field` | Object | Provides the rerank processor with reranking information. Required.

> `by_field.target_field` | String | This can be a path to your field that has a numerical score, in the form of `key[.key]`. Required.

Reviewer 3: required or optional can be a separate column

{ "index": { "_index": "book-index", "_id": "2" } }
{ "title": "Whispers of the Past", "author": "John Smith", "genre": "Historical Mystery", "rating": 4.7, "description": "A gripping tale set in Victorian England, unraveling a century-old mystery." }
{ "index": { "_index": "book-index", "_id": "3" } }
{ "title": "Starlit Dreams", "author": "Emily Clark", "genre": "Science Fiction", "rating": 4.5, "description": "In a future where dreams can be shared, one girl discovers her imagination's power." }
{ "index": { "_index": "book-index", "_id": "4" } }
{ "title": "The Enchanted Garden", "author": "Alice Green", "genre": "Fantasy", "rating": 4.8, "description": "A magical garden holds the key to a young girl's destiny and friendship." }
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Creating a search pipeline

The following request creates a search pipeline with a `by_field` rerank response processor. We want to rerank `by_field` using the `target_field` : rating.

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/rerank_byfield_pipeline
{
  "response_processors": [
    {
      "rerank": {
        "by_field": {

>           "target_field": "rating",

Author: Good point, yeah that would be more selling Ill implement that instead

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The `query_context` object contains the following fields. You must provide either `query_text` or `query_text_path` but cannot provide both simultaneously.

Field name | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :--- | :---  
`query_text` | Exactly one of `query_text` or `query_text_path` is required. | The natural language text of the question that you want to use to rerank the search results. 
`query_text_path` | Exactly one of `query_text` or `query_text_path` is required. | The full JSON path to the text of the question that you want to use to rerank the search results. The maximum number of characters allowed in the path is `1000`.

<!-- vale off -->
## The by_field rerank type
<!-- vale on -->
Introduced 2.18
{: .label .label-purple }

To rerank results by a document field, specify the `by_field` rerank type.

The `by_field` object supports the following fields.

Field  | Data type | Required/Optional | Description
:--- | :---  | :--- | :--- 

> `target_field` | String | Required |  Specifies the field name or a dot path to the field that contains the score by which to rank. 

Reviewer: "that contains the score by which to rank" => "containing the score to use for ranking/reranking"?

> `target_field` | String | Required |  Specifies the field name or a dot path to the field that contains the score by which to rank. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`target_field` | String | Required |  Specifies the field name or a dot path to the field containing the score to use for reranking. 
```
